this video was made possible by
Skillshare get unlimited access to over
25,000 classes for free for two months
by signing up at sk alta sh / hei 23
hello and welcome back to highly
ambiguous inquiries so what's the
fastest man-made object ever I'll give
you a hint it's not the US military when
a developing country finds oil it's not
James Charles's plumbing subscriber
count' and it's not Sonic the terrifying
human - through Gollum that haunts my
nightmares what is the answer well if
you've watched this channel before you
probably know what I'm about to say it's
complicated
and good for watch time if we're talking
about moving on land then it's the
thrust SSC a British rocket car that
looks like it should be piloted by
either James Bond or Anakin Skywalker
it's actual driver British fighter pilot
Andy green for apparently no reason
other than hey why not drove it to top
speed in the middle of the Black Rock
Desert reaching the record speed of 763
miles or 1228 km/h on October 15 1997
but we're really not talking about the
fastest man-made object on land because
this video is not long enough yet if
we're talking about travel through air
though then that's another story a much
longer and much stranger story starting
in 1945 the United States began
conducting tests of nuclear palms at
first close to them were above ground
but in the late 50s people started to
think blowing up air isn't satisfying
enough and maybe this radiation thing
isn't too good for us and so they move
the big boom tests underground
the thing is though they didn't really
know what would happen the first test
was conducted on August 27th 1957 they
dug a long cylindrical hole into the
ground put a bomb in it put a two-ton
concrete plug on top of it which was
covered by a four inch thick steel
manhole cover then as one does they went
ahead and set off the bomb to their
surprise the concrete plug was vaporized
instantly turning it into a mass of
superheated gas that expanded and
essentially made the entire hole into a
gigantic gun barrel when the gas hit the
manhole cover BAM it was blown off the
ground instantly shot into the sky and
disappeared out of sight now normally we
just shrugged her shoulders satisfied
with the continued mystery of how fast
the manhole cover
and get back to the inconsequential
nuking of the ground but luckily this
time there was a high-speed camera on
site that caught a glimpse of the
manhole cover the camera shot at one
frame per millisecond or 1,000 frames
per second and it only caught the
manhole cover in a single frame which
allowed them to calculate using math
stuff a lower bound for the manhole
covers speed by looking at where the
manhole cover was in the frame and then
calculating the distance between there
and the bottom of the frame we find the
shortest possible distance it could have
traveled between when the last frame was
taken and when this frame was taken in
other words we're assuming that when the
frame was taken the manhole cover was
here just below the frame then we take
that distance and divide it by one
millisecond the time between the frames
to get distance per second so we're
basically saying if the manhole cover
was here and then one millisecond later
it was here how fast did it travel now
we can't do the actual calculation
ourselves because the government has
never released the video and for some
reason refuses to declassify it for what
is one of the Internet's most regarded
YouTube channels but we do know that the
scientist conducting the experiment dr.
Brownlee took that information from the
high-speed camera combined it with
calculations of the blast force from the
bomb did math things and reported that
the manhole cover had been moving at six
times the Earth's escape velocity which
would put it at about 125,000 miles or
200,000 km/h or 34 miles or 54
kilometers per second so like fast there
is disagreement as to whether or not the
manhole cover made it into space some
say that it would have burned up on its
way out of the atmosphere while others
say that it may have been moving so fast
that it wouldn't have had time to burn
up either way just like my ability to
write you some jokes that manhole cover
has never been found if it did really
make it into space it would have been
the first object ever launched into
space the experiment happened on August
27th 1957 just over a month before
sputnik's launch on October 4th 1957
take that commies as of today it seems
that no other object has managed to come
even close to the manhole cover speed
while still in the Earth's atmosphere if
we count space travel though then the
manhole cover has met its match
although the manhole cover what
moving over four times faster than the
fastest man space vehicle its record for
fastest man-made object was surpassed in
the 1970s by NASA's Helios probe and
then again in 2016 but the Juno probe
the Helios to probe became the fastest
ever man-made object in space in 1976
the probe designed to study the song was
in an elliptical orbit around the Sun
because it followed the conservation of
angular momentum it speed increased as
it got closer to the Sun and it
eventually topped out at a hundred and
fifty seven thousand miles per hour then
just recently in 2016 the Juno space
probe broke that record when it was
sucked in by Jupiter's gravitational
pull reaching one hundred and sixty-five
thousand miles per hour it was actually
moving so fast that it had to hit the
brakes so that it could enter Jupiter's
orbit instead of flying right past it
but it's also important to note that
both of those probes only reach those
speeds by using the gravity of the Sun
or another planet which kind of feels
like cheating I mean if I was allowed to
use this Sun's gravity to pull me I
maybe wouldn't have come in last place
mi seventh grade track mate
so if we only count self-propelled
objects then unbelievably the manhole
cover still reigns supreme
which should really be the fastest
object in human history though is your
mouse when you hear that you can learn
for free for two months by signing up
for Skillshare and eskelta sh / h ni 23
that's because Skillshare has over
25,000 courses on an enormous variety of
subjects so if there's something you
want to learn there's a good chance they
have a course on it one course of their
so that I would highly recommend is the
one on presentation essentials
presenting your ideas effectively in
public speaking is a skill that is bound
to get you ahead in business school and
life and so the fundamentals that this
course teaches you are crucial whatever
you want to learn it's no risk to you to
try Skillshare out as you can once again
learn for free for two months by signing
up an skl - sh / h AI 23